README.md, before:

# dvlpenergy-task

The dvlpenergy-task web application is a Fullstack application developed with React and the Django RestFramework. The ElephantSQL database is used to store the geoJSON data that feeds the geometry polygon onto the map.
The application therefore renders a basemap of Brandenburg and indicates with polygon layers where solar plants are situated. The total land area of the solar plants are displayed in square meters upon a click.  

The live link can be found here: [Live Site - dvlpenergy-task](https://dvlpenergy-task-4229b9c60fd6.herokuapp.com/)

![Mock Up](./docs/dvlp-mockup-gif.gif)

## Table of Contents
- [dvlpenergy-task](#dvlpenergy-task)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [User-Experience-Design](#user-experience-design)
  - [The-Strategy-Plane](#the-strategy-plane)
    - [Site-Goal](#site-goal)
    - [Agile Planning-and-Process](#planning-and-process)
      - [Steps](#steps)
          - [Backend Django Setup](#Backend-Django-Setup)
          - [ElephantSQL Database Setup](#ElephantSQL-Database-Setup)
      - [User Stories](#user-stories)
  - [The-Structure-Plane](#the-structure-plane)
    - [Features](#features)
    - [Features Left To Implement](#features-left-to-implement)
  - [The-Skeleton-Plane](#the-skeleton-plane)
    - [Database-Design](#database-design)
    - [Security](#security)
  - [The-Surface-Plane](#the-surface-plane)
    - [Design](#design)
    - [Colour-Scheme](#colour-scheme)
    - [Typography](#typography)
    - [Imagery](#imagery)
  - [Technolgies](#technolgies)
  - [Testing](#testing)
  - [Deployment](#deployment)
    - [Version Control](#version-control)
    - [Heroku Deployment](#heroku-deployment)
  - [Credits](#credits)

# User-Experience-Design

## The-Strategy-Plane

### Site-Goals

This web application is aimed at displaying the map of Brandenburg with plotted polygon layers of solar plants.
When the user clicks on the polygon layer marked red, the total area of the polygon pops up in square meters.


### Agile Planning-and-Process

As soon as I got the task, I begun to brainstorm.
I thought it wise to make use of almost all the applicable technologies I have learnt so far.
I then started researching into the feasibility of my plan to use React with Vite for the frontend and the Django REST Framework for creating the API endpoint for the backend.

As soon as I was certain, I created a sample logo for patency reasons with Canva.
I then created the [dvlpenergy-task repository](https://github.com/samuelandersoncodes/dvlpenergy-task) and begun to jot down the rough idea I have and how to go about it, as well as the order in which I will be building the web application.

Subsequently, I used the Kanban board to plan the main segments of the development.
![Kanban board](./docs/dvlp-energy-kanban.png)
With that, I had only four main issues set in order of priority due to time constraints. ![Issues](./docs/dvlp-kanban-issues.png)
It comes along with its respective user stories, acceptance criteria and tasks. For example, the main priority was to get the map well integrated so that I can continue to build upon it. ![Issues](./docs/main-user-story.png)

## Steps

### 1. Backend Django Setup 
I first created my Django project in the [dvlpenergy-task repository](https://github.com/samuelandersoncodes/dvlpenergy-task) with the command 'django-admin startproject solar_farm_map .' after I have cloned the aforementioned repository with 'git clone https://github.com/samuelandersoncodes/dvlpenergy-task.git'

I then changed the directory to the Django project level with the 'cd solar_farm_map' command.

Thereafter, I created my 'brandenburg_plants' app with the 'python manage.py startapp brandenburg_plants' command.

I straight away created my virtual environment with 'python3 -m venv .venv' and activated it with '. .venv\Scripts\activate', always making sure that it is activated before I hit a key.

Furthermore, I installed the core necessary libraries. For instance, the Django RESTframework with the 'pip install django djangorestframework' and subsequently did so for the other libraries as needed.

I configured settings in the 'settings.py' file of the project, created the env.py file to store the django secret key and also added the new app to the installed apps section. Afterwards, I created my superuser with the 'python manage.py createsuperuser' command, migrated changes with 'python manage.py migrate' and made sure the site fires without errors.

### 2. ElephantSQL Database Setup

Since I already have an ElephantSQL account, I just signed in and created a new instance for this particular project. I chose the 'Tiny Turtle' plan since the data is not so huge, named it 'dvlp' and selected the nearest region 'amazon-web-services::eu-west-1' as seen here;![elephantsql db](./docs/dvlp-elephantsql-db.png)
I copied the database url and added it to my env.py file.

After that, I set up the database in the settings file. In my bash terminal, I ran 'pip3 install dj_database_url==0.5.0 psycopg2' for the database connection dependencies and updated the requirements.txt file with which I created earlier on 'pip freeze > requirements.txt' and then imported the 'dj_database_url'. To confirm the connection, I 'ran python3 manage.py showmigrations' and then migrated the changes. I then created a 'management/command/load_data function to load the geoJSON fixture and confirmed the data in the browser/Table queries section of the ElephantSQL database.

Commit message:

docs: Add frontend setup and gitignore documentation

README.md, after:

# dvlpenergy-task

The dvlpenergy-task web application is a Fullstack application developed with React and the Django RestFramework. The ElephantSQL database is used to store the geoJSON data that feeds the geometry polygon onto the map.
The application therefore renders a basemap of Brandenburg and indicates with polygon layers where solar plants are situated. The total land area of the solar plants are displayed in square meters upon a click.  

The live link can be found here: [Live Site - dvlpenergy-task](https://dvlpenergy-task-4229b9c60fd6.herokuapp.com/)

![Mock Up](./docs/dvlp-mockup-gif.gif)

## Table of Contents
- [dvlpenergy-task](#dvlpenergy-task)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [User-Experience-Design](#user-experience-design)
  - [The-Strategy-Plane](#the-strategy-plane)
    - [Site-Goal](#site-goal)
    - [Agile Planning-and-Process](#planning-and-process)
      - [Steps](#steps)
          - [Backend Django Setup](#Backend-Django-Setup)
          - [ElephantSQL Database Setup](#ElephantSQL-Database-Setup)
          - [Frontend React Setup](#Frontend-React-Setup)
      - [User Stories](#user-stories)
  - [The-Structure-Plane](#the-structure-plane)
    - [Features](#features)
    - [Features Left To Implement](#features-left-to-implement)
  - [The-Skeleton-Plane](#the-skeleton-plane)
    - [Database-Design](#database-design)
    - [Security](#security)
  - [The-Surface-Plane](#the-surface-plane)
    - [Design](#design)
    - [Colour-Scheme](#colour-scheme)
    - [Typography](#typography)
    - [Imagery](#imagery)
  - [Technolgies](#technolgies)
  - [Testing](#testing)
  - [Deployment](#deployment)
    - [Version Control](#version-control)
    - [Heroku Deployment](#heroku-deployment)
  - [Credits](#credits)

# User-Experience-Design

## The-Strategy-Plane

### Site-Goals

This web application is aimed at displaying the map of Brandenburg with plotted polygon layers of solar plants.
When the user clicks on the polygon layer marked red, the total area of the polygon pops up in square meters.


### Agile Planning-and-Process

As soon as I got the task, I begun to brainstorm.
I thought it wise to make use of almost all the applicable technologies I have learnt so far.
I then started researching into the feasibility of my plan to use React with Vite for the frontend and the Django REST Framework for creating the API endpoint for the backend.

As soon as I was certain, I created a sample logo for patency reasons with Canva.
I then created the [dvlpenergy-task repository](https://github.com/samuelandersoncodes/dvlpenergy-task) and begun to jot down the rough idea I have and how to go about it, as well as the order in which I will be building the web application.

Subsequently, I used the Kanban board to plan the main segments of the development.
![Kanban board](./docs/dvlp-energy-kanban.png)
With that, I had only four main issues set in order of priority due to time constraints. ![Issues](./docs/dvlp-kanban-issues.png)
It comes along with its respective user stories, acceptance criteria and tasks. For example, the main priority was to get the map well integrated so that I can continue to build upon it. ![Issues](./docs/main-user-story.png)

## Steps

### 1. Backend Django Setup 
I first created my Django project in the [dvlpenergy-task repository](https://github.com/samuelandersoncodes/dvlpenergy-task) with the command 'django-admin startproject solar_farm_map .' after I have cloned the aforementioned repository with 'git clone https://github.com/samuelandersoncodes/dvlpenergy-task.git'

I then changed the directory to the Django project level with the 'cd solar_farm_map' command.

Thereafter, I created my 'brandenburg_plants' app with the 'python manage.py startapp brandenburg_plants' command.

I straight away created my virtual environment with 'python3 -m venv .venv' and activated it with '. .venv\Scripts\activate', always making sure that it is activated before I hit a key.

Furthermore, I installed the core necessary libraries. For instance, the Django RESTframework with the 'pip install django djangorestframework' and subsequently did so for the other libraries as needed.

I configured settings in the 'settings.py' file of the project, created the env.py file to store the django secret key and also added the new app to the installed apps section. Afterwards, I created my superuser with the 'python manage.py createsuperuser' command, migrated changes with 'python manage.py migrate' and made sure the site fires without errors. I finally added the .venv, sqlite3 and subsequently the staticfiles files to the gitignore file.

### 2. ElephantSQL Database Setup

Since I already have an ElephantSQL account, I just signed in and created a new instance for this particular project. I chose the 'Tiny Turtle' plan since the data is not so huge, named it 'dvlp' and selected the nearest region 'amazon-web-services::eu-west-1' as seen here;![elephantsql db](./docs/dvlp-elephantsql-db.png)
I copied the database url and added it to my env.py file.

After that, I set up the database in the settings file. In my bash terminal, I ran 'pip3 install dj_database_url==0.5.0 psycopg2' for the database connection dependencies and updated the requirements.txt file with which I created earlier on 'pip freeze > requirements.txt' and then imported the 'dj_database_url'. To confirm the connection, I 'ran python3 manage.py showmigrations' and then migrated the changes. I then created a 'management/command/load_data function to load the geoJSON fixture and confirmed the data in the browser/Table queries section of the ElephantSQL database.

### 2. Frontend React Setup

In the repository's root directory, I created the react app with Vite; 'npm create-vite@latest frontend --template' and chose TypeScript. I swichted to the frontend directory with 'cd frontend', ran installation; 'npm install", and run the server with 'npm run dev'. I then did all the vital additional installations including mapbox-gl which I will most definitely need. After confriming that my server runs smoothly, I created a .env file to keep frontend secret keys, ignored it in the gitignore file and got it committed.
